in an American case, Carroll vs Greenwich Insc.
Co (2).
"The object of the law, we assume, until the lower Court shall decide otherwise, is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
" The title and the preamble as well as the other specific provisions of the Act here in question show unmistakably that the whole object and purpose of the legislation was to devise machinery for "speedier trial of certain offences", (which must mean trial of cases involving the commission of certain (1) (1830) I B & Ad.
538, 558.
(2) ; 293 offences as there can, of course, be no trial of offences in the abstract) and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature; for, a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion, which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
The discretion vested in the State Government in selecting cases for reference to a special court may not be subject to judicial review and may, in that sense, be abso lute, but that is very different from saying that it was intended to be arbitrary.
Its exercise must involve bona fide consideration of special features or circumstances which call for a comparatively prompt disposal of the case or cases proposed to be referred.
In other words, section 5 (1) must, in my opinion, be read as empowering the State Government to direct a special court to try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as, in its judgment, require speedier trial.
The question next arises as to whether the provision, thus understood, violates the prohibition under article 14 of the Constitution.
The first part of the article, which appears to have been adopted from the Irish Constitution, is a declaration of equality of the civil rights of all persons within the territories of India and thus enshrines what American Judges regard as the "basic principle of republi canism" [cf.
Ward vs Flood (1)].
The second part which is a corollary of the first and is based on the last clause of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Ameri can Constitution, enjoins that equal protection shall be secured to all such persons in the enjoyment of their rights and liberties without discrimination or favouritism, or as an American Judge put it "it is a (1) 17 Am.
Rep.405.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws" [Yick Wo vs Hopkins (1)], that is, Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
And as the prohibition under the article is directed against the State, which is defined in article 12 as including not only the legislatures but also the Governments in the country, article 14 secures all persons within the territories of India against arbitrary laws as well as arbitrary application of laws.
This is further made clear by defining "law" in article 13 (which renders void any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part III) as including, among other things, any "order" or "notification", so that even executive orders or notifica tions must not infringe article 14.
This trilogy of arti cles thus ensures non discrimination in State action both in the legislative and the administrative spheres in the demo cratic republic of India.
This, however, cannot mean that all laws must be general in character and universal in application.
As pointed out in Chiranjit Lal 's case(2) and in numerous American decisions dealing with the equal pro tection clause of the 14th Amendment, the State in the exercise of its governmental power must of necessity make laws operating differently on different groups or classes of persons within its territory to attain particular ends in giving effect to its policies, and it must possess for that purpose large powers of distinguishing and classifying persons or things to be subjected to such laws.
But classi fication necessarily implies discrimination between persons classified and those who are not members of that class.
"It is the essence of a classification" said Mr Justice Brewer in Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R Co
vs Deputy Commissioner of Taxation for New South Wales (1).
Thus explained, the Yick Wo case is no authority for the view that the vesting in a public authority of a discretion which is liable to abuse by arbitrary exercise contrary to its intendment is a suffi cient ground for condemning a statute as discriminatory and unconstitutional.
On the other hand, there is ample authority in the American decisions for the view that the necessarily large powers vested in a legislature must include the power of entrusting to an administrative body a plenary but not arbitrary discretion to be exercised so as to carry out the purpose of an enactment.
In Engel vs O ' Malley (2) a New York statute prohibiting individuals or partnerships to engage in the business of receiving deposits of money with out a licence from the controller "who may approve or disap prove the application for a licence in his discretion" was sustained as constitutional.
In answer to the argument that the controller might refuse a licence on his arbitrary whim, Holmes J said: "We should suppose that in each case the controller was expected to act for cause.
But the nature and extent of the remedy, if any, for a breach of duty on his part, we think it unnecessary to consider; for the power of the state to make the pursuit of a calling dependent upon obtaining a licence is well established where safety seems to require it." In New York ex rel.
Lieberman vs Van De Carr(3) a provi sion in the Sanitary Code of the City of New York vested discretion in Local Health Boards to grant or withhold licences for carrying on milk business in the City.
Uphold ing the constitutionality of the (1) , 858.
(3) ; (2) ; 300 provision, Day J observed after referring to certain prior decisions : "These cases leave in no doubt the proposition that the conferring of discretionary power upon administrative boards to grant or withhold permission to carry on a trade or business which is the proper subject of regulation within the police power of the state is not violative of rights secured by the 14th Amendment.
There is no presumption that the power will be arbitrarily exercised, and when it is shown to be thus exercised against the individual, under sanction of state authority, this court has not hesitated to interfere for his protection, when the case has come before it in such manner as to authorise the interference of a Federal Court." And Holmes J added that, although it did not appear from the statute that the action of the Board of Health was intended to be subject to judicial revision as to its rea sonableness, he agreed that it was not hit at by the 14th Amendment.
In the light of the foregoing discussion, it seems to me difficult to hold that section 5 (1) in whole or in part is discriminatory.
It does not, either in terms or by necessary implication, discriminate as between persons or classes of persons; nor does it purport to deny to any one equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws.
Indeed, it does not by its own force make the special procedure provided in the Act applicable to the trial of any offence or classes of offences or classes of cases; for, it is the State Government 's notification under the section that attracts the application of the procedure.
Nor is that procedure, as I have endeavoured to show, calculated to impair the chances of a fair trial of the cases to which it may be made applicable, and no discriminatory intent or design is discernible on its face, unless every departure from the normal procedure is to be regarded as involving a hostile discrimination.
I have already held, as a matter of construction, that section 5 (1)vests a discretion in the State Government to refer to a special court for trial such offences or classes of offences or 301 cases or classes of cases as may, in its opinion, require a speedier trial.
Such discretion the State Government is expected to exercise honestly and reasonably, and the mere fact that it is not made subject to judicial review cannot mean that it was intended to be exercised in an arbitrary manner without reference to the declared object of the Act or, as Harries C.J put it, "whether the duration of a case is likely to be long or not.
" In the face of all these considerations, it seems to me difficult to condemn section 5 (1) as violative of article 14.
If the discretion given to the State Government should be exercised improperly or arbitrarily, the administrative action may be challenged as discriminatory, but it cannot affect the constitutionality of the law.
Whether a law conferring discretionary powers on an administrative authority is constitutionally valid or not should not be determined on the assumption that such authority will act in an arbitrary manner in exercising the discretion committed to it.
As observed by Kania C.J
7), the vesting of discretion in the Special Court to refuse to summon a defence witness if it be satisfied that his evidence will not be material (sec.
8), the liability to be convicted of an offence higher than that for which the accused was sent up for trial under the Act (sec 13), the exclusion of interference of other Courts by way of revision or transfer or under section 491 of the Code (sec 16) are some of the glaring instances of inequality brought about by the impugned Act.
The learned Attorney General has drawn our attention to various sections of the Code of Criminal Procedure in an endeavour to establish that provisions somewhat similar to those enacted in this Act are also contained in the Code.
A comparison between the lan guage of those sections of the Code and that of the several sections of this Act mentioned above will clearly show that the Act has gone much beyond the proViSions of the Code and the Act cannot by any means 44 338 be said to be an innocuous substitute for the procedure prescribed by the Code.
The far reaching effect of the elimination of the committal proceedings cannot possibly be ignored merely by stating that the warrant procedure under the Code in a way also involves a committal by the trial Magistrate, namely to himself, for the warrant procedure minimises the chances of the prosecution being thrown out at the preliminary stage.
as may be done by the committing Magistrate, and deprives the accused person of the opportu nity of knowing, well in advance of the actual trial before the Sessions Court, the case sought to be made against him and the evidence in support of it and, what is of the utmost importance, of the benefit of a trial before and the deci sion of a different and independent mind.
The liability to be convicted of a higher offence has no parallel in the Code.
It is true that the State can, under section 269 (1) of the Code, do away with trial by jury but that section, as pointed out by Chakravartti J does not clearly contemplate elimination of that procedure only in particular cases which is precisely what the Act authorises the Government to do.
On a fair reading of the Act there can be no escape from the fact that it quite definitely brings about a substantial inequality of treatment, in the matter of trial, between persons subjected to it and others who are left to be gov erned by the ordinary procedure laid down.
in the Code.
The question is whether section 5 (1) which really imposes this substantial inequality on particular persons can be saved from the operation of article 14 on the principle of ration al classification of the kind permissible in law.
Section 5 (1) of the Act runs as follows": " A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases, as the State Government may, by general or special order in writing, direct".
It will be noticed that the sub section refers to four distinct categories, namely, "offences", ' 'classes of of fences", "cases" and "classes of cases" and empowers 339 the State government to direct any one or more of these categories to be tried by the Special Court constituted under the Act.
I shall first deal with the section in so far as it authorises the State government to direct "of fences", "classes of offences" and "classes of cases" to be tried by a Special Court.
These expressions clearly indi cate, and obviously imply, a process of classification of offences or cases.
Prima facie those words do not contem plate any particular offender or any particular accused in any particular case.
The emphasis is on "offences", ' 'classes of offences" or "classes of cases".
The classifi cation of ' 'offences" by itself is not calculated to touch any individual as such, although it may, after the classifi cation is made, affect all individuals who may commit the particular offence.
In short, the classification implied in this part of the sub section has no reference to, and is not directed towards the singling out of any particular person as an object of hostile State action but is concerned only with the grouping of "offences", "classes of offences" and "classes of cases" for the purpose of being tried by a Special Court.
Such being the meaning and implication of this part of section 5 (1), the question arises whether the process of classification thus contemplated by the Act conforms to the requirements of reasonable classification which does not offend against the Constitution.
Learned Attorney General claims that the impugned Act satisfies even this test of rational classification.
His contention is that offences may be grouped into two classes, namely, those that require speedier trial, that is speedier than what is provided for in the Code and those that do not require a speedier trial.
The Act, according to him, purports to deal only with offences of the first class.
He first draws our attention to the fact that the Act is inti tuled "An Act to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences" and then points out that the purpose of the Act, as stated in its preamble, also is "to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences".
He next refers us to the different sections of the Act and urges 340 that all the procedural changes introduced by the Act are designed to accomplish the object of securing speedier trial.
The Act accordingly empowers the State government to direct the offences, which, in its view, require speedier trial, to be tried by a Special Court according to the special procedure provided by it for the speedier trial of those offences.
This construction of the section, he main tains, is consonant with the object of the Act as recited in the preamble and does not offend against the inhibition of article 14 of our Constitution.
Learned counsel for the respondents, on the other hand, urge that there is no ambi guity whatever in the language used in the sub section, that there is no indication in the sub section itself of any restriction or qualification on the power of classification conferred by it on the State government and that the power thus given to the State government cannot be controlled and cut down by calling in aid the preamble of the Act, for the preamble cannot abridge or enlarge the meaning of the plain language of the sub section.
This argument was accept ed by the High Court in its application to the other part of the section dealing with selection of "cases" but in judging whether this argument applies, with equal force, to that part of the section I am now considering, it must be borne in mind that, although the preamble of an Act cannot over ride the plain meaning of the language of its operative parts, it may, nevertheless, assist in ascertaining what the true meaning or implication of a particular section is, for the preamble is, as it were a key to the understanding of the Act.
I therefore, proceed to examine this part of section 5(1) in the light of the preamble so as to ascertain the true meaning of it.
I have already stated that this part of the sub section contemplates a process of classification of "of fences", "classes of offences" and "classes of cases".
This classification must, in order that it may not infringe the constitutional prohibition, fulfil the two conditions I have mentioned.
The preamble of the Act under consideration recites the expediency of providing for the speedier trial of certain 341 offences.
The provision for the speedier trial of certain offences is, therefore, the object of the Act.
To achieve this object, offences or cases have to be classified upon the basis of some differentia which will distinguish those offences or cases from others and which will have a reasona ble relation to the recited object of the Act.
The differen tia and the object being, as I have said, different ele ments, it follows that the object by itself cannot be the basis of the classification of offences or the cases, for, in the absence of any special circumstances which may dis tinguish one offence or one class of offences or one class of cases from another offence, or class of offences or class of cases, speedier trial is desirable in the disposal of all offences or classes of offences or classes of cases.
Offences or cases cannot be classified in two categories on the basis of the preamble alone as suggested by the learned Attorney General.
Learned counsel for the respondents then contended that as the object of the Act as recited in the preamble cannot be the basis of classification, then this part of sub sec tion 5 (1) gives an uncontrolled and unguided power of classification which may well be exercised by the State government capriciously or "with an evil eye and an unequal band" so as to deliberately bring about invidious discrimi nation between man and man, although both of them are situ ated in exactly the same or similar circumstances.
By way of illustration it is pointed out that in the Indian Penal Code there are different chapters dealing with offences relating tO different matters, e.g., Chapter XVII which deals with offences against property, that under this generic head are set forth different species of offences against property, e.g., theft (section 378), theft in a dwelling house (sec tion 380), theft by a servant (section 381), to take only a few examples, and that according to the language of section 5(1) of the impugned Act it will be open to the State government to direct all offences of theft in a dwell ing house under section 380 to be tried by the Special Court according to the special procedure laid down in the Act leaving all offences of theft by a servant under section 381 to be dealt with in the 342 ordinary Court in the usual way.
In other words, if a stranger is charged with theft in a dwelling house, he may be sent up for trial before the Special Court under section 380 whereas if a servant is accused of theft in a dwelling house he may be left to be tried under the Code for an offence under section 381.
The argument is that although there is no apparent reason why an offence of theft in a dwelling house by a stranger should require speedier trial any more than an offence of theft in a dwelling house by a servant should do, the State government may nevertheless select the former offence for special and discriminatory treatment in the matter of its trial by bringing it under the Act.
A little reflection will show that this argument is not sound.
The part of sub section 5(1) which I am now examining confers a power on the State government to make a classification of offences, classes of offences or classes of cases, which, as said by Chakravartti J., "means a proper classification.
" In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
In the illustration taken above the two offences are only two species of the same genus, the only difference being that in the first the alleged offender is a stranger and in the latter he is a servant of the owner whose proper ty has been stolen.
Even if this difference in the circum stances of the two alleged offenders can be made the basis of a classification, there is no nexus between this differ ence and the object of the Act, for, in the absence of any special circumstances, there is no apparent reason why the offence of theft in a dwelling house by a stranger should require a speedier trial any more than the offence of theft by a servant should do.
Such classification will be wholly arbitrary and will be liable to be hit by the principles on which the Supreme Court of the United States in Jack Skinner vs Oklahoma(1) struck down the Oklahoma Habitual Criminal Sterilisation Act which (1) ; 216 US.
535; 343 imposed sterilisation on a person convicted more than twice of larceny but not on one who was convicted of embezzlement on numerous occasions.
That sort of classification will, therefore, not clearly be a proper classification such as the Act must be deemed to contemplate.
On the other hand, it is easy to visualise a situation when certain offences, e.g., theft in a dwelling house, by reason of the frequency of their perpetration or other attending circumstances, may legitimately call for a speedi er trial and swift retribution by way of punishment to check the commission of such offences.
Are we not familiar with gruesome crimes of murder, arson, loot and rape committed on a large scale during communal riots in particular localities and are they not really different from a case of a stray murder, arson, loot or rape in another district which may not be affected by any communal upheaval ? Do not the existence of the communal riot and the concomitant crimes committed on a large scale call for prompt and speedier trial in the very interest and safety of the community ? May not political murders or crimes against the State or a class of the community, e.g., women, assume such proportions as would be sufficient to constitute them into a special class of offences requiring special treatment ? Do not these special circumstances add a peculiar quality to these of fences or classes of offences or classes of cases which distinguish them from stray cases of similar crimes and is it not reasonable and even necessary to arm the State with power to classify them into a separate group and deal with them promptly ? I have no doubt in my mind that the surrounding circumstances and the special features I have mentioned above will furnish a very cogent and reasonable basis of classification, for it is obvious that they do clearly distinguish these offences from similar or even same species of offences committed elsewhere and under ordinary circumstances.
This differentia quite clearly has a reasona ble relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act, namely, the speedier trial of certain offences.
Such a classification will not be 344 repugnant to the equal protection clause of our Constitution for there will be no discrimination, for whoever may commit the specified offence in the specified area in the specified circumstances will be treated alike and sent up before a Special Court for trial under the special procedure.
Persons thus sent up for trial by a Special Court cannot point their fingers to the other persons who may be charged before an ordinary Court with similar or even same species of offences in a different place and in different circum stances and complain of unequal treatment, for those other persons are of a different category and are not their equals.
Section 5(1), in so far as it empowers the State government to direct "offences" or "classes of offences" or "classes of cases" to be tried by a Special Court, also, by necessary implication and intendment, empowers the State government to classify the "offences" or "classes of of fences" or "classes of cases ", that is to say, to make a proper classification in the sense I have explained.
In my judgment, this part of the section, properly construed and understood, does not confer an uncontrolled and unguided power on the State government.
On the contrary, this power is controlled by the necessity for making a proper classifi cation which is guided by the preamble in the sense that the classification must have a rational relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
It is, therefore, not an arbitary power.
I, therefore, agree with Harries, C.J that this part of section 5(1) is valid.
if the State gov ernment classifies offences arbitrarily and not on any reasonable basis having a relation to the object of the Act, its action will be either an abuse of its power if it is purposeful or in excess of its powers even if it is done in good faith and in either case the resulting discrimination will encounter the challenge of the Constitution and the Court will strike down, not the law which is good, but the abuse or misuse or the unconstitutional administration of the law creating or resulting in unconstitutional discrimi nation.
345 In the present case, however, the State government has not purported to proceed under that part of section 5(1) which I have been discussing so far.
It has, on the other hand, acted under that part of the section which authorises it to direct" cases" to be tried by the Special Court, for by the notifications it has directed certain specific cases identified by their individual numbers in the records of the particular than as to be tried by the Special Court.
There is ostensibly no attempt at, or pretence of, any classifica tion on any basis whatever.
The notifications simply direct certain "cases" to be tried by the Special Court and are obviously issued under that part of section 5(1) which authorises the State government to direct "cases" to be tried by the Special Court.
The word "cases" has been used to signify a category distinct from "classes of cases".
The idea of classification is, therefore, excluded.
This 'means that this part of the sub section empowers the State Govern ment to pick out or select particular cases against particu lar persons for being sent up to the Special Court for trial.
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble, that is to say, the State government can only select those cases which, in their view, require speedier trial.
Turning to the pream ble, I find that the object of the Act is "to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences" and not of a partic ular case or cases.
In other words, this part of section 5 (1) lies beyond the ambit of the object laid down in the preamble and, therefore, the preamble can have no manner of application in the selection of "cases" as distinct from "offences", "classes of offences" or "classes of cases".
I agree with Harries C.J