" I will now advert once more to clause (2) of article 19 and state what I consider to be the reason for inserting in it the words "matter which undermines the security of, or tends to overthrow, the State. " It is well recognized in all systems of law that the right to freedom of speech and expression or freedom of the press means that any person may write or say what he pleases so long as he does not infringe the law relating to libel or slander or to blasphemous, obscene or seditious words or writings: (see Halsbury 's Laws of England, 2nd Edition, Vol. II, page 391). This is prac tically what has been said in clause (2) of article 19, with this difference only that instead of using the words "law relating to sedition," the framers of the Constitution have used the words mentioned above. It is interesting to note that sedition was mentioned in the original draft of the Constitution, but subsequently that word was dropped and the words which I have quoted were inserted.
In my opinion, there can be no doubt that the Chief Commissioner has purported to act in this case within the sphere within which he is permitted to act under the law, and it is beyond the power of this Court to grant the reliefs claimed by the petitioners. In these circumstances, I would dismiss the petitioners ' application. Petition allowed. Agent for the petitioners: Ganpat Rai.
I think it is not difficult to discover the reason for this change and I shall briefly state in my own words what I consider it to be. The latest pronouncement by the highest Indian tribunal as to the law of sedition is to be found in Niharendu Dutt Majumdar vs The King(1) which has been quoted again and again and in which Gwyer C.J. laid down that public disor der, or the reasonable anticipation or likelihood of public disorder, is the gist of the offence of sedition and "the acts or words complained of must either incite to disorder or (1) 615 must be such as to satisfy reasonable men that is their intention or tendency. " For this view, the learned Chief Justice relied on certain observations of Fitzgerald J. in R.v. Sullivan (1), and he also added that he was content to adopt "the words of that learned Judge which are to be found in every book dealing with this branch of the criminal law. " There is no doubt that what Gwyer C.J. has stated in that case represents the view of a number of Judges and authors and was also the view of Sir James Stephen in regard to whom Cave J. in his charge to the jury in a case relating to the law of sedition JR.